# Anderson + Kitchin Response 

### Anderson describes what he calls the “death of theory?” WHat did he mean by this statement? In response Kitchen offers a rebuttal to Anderson. What do you think? Has big data killed theory?

In Anderson’s piece on *The End Theory*, he discusses how we have moved into the Petabyte age of Big Data where we have more data than ever before. With this rise in voluminous and real-time data, the scientific model of hypothesize, model, and then test is becoming obsolete. Using Big Data, analytical Machine Learning models can analyze data without a preceding hypothesis or theory to make conclusions about what the data means and what it shows. 

Kitchin agrees that Big Data and new data analytics are disruptive innovations and that there is a need for critical reflection on the possible implications of the data revolution, but later discusses that the Big Data revolution is not necessarily the death of theory but that Big Data analysis will lead to data-drive science which evolves the scientific method and uses a hybrid of adductive, inductive, and deductive approaches. 

The two main hypotheses discussed surrounding the effects of Big Data are the empiricism theory and the data-driven science theory. It is agreed that Big Data will usher in the era of the fourth scientific paradigm, but some believe that this era will result in the death of theory. Kitchin refutes this idea when talking about the four main ideas and misconceptions that underpin the empiricist epistemology. The first being that even though Big Data is exhaustive in theory, in actuality it is a sample and representation subject to sampling bias. The second is that Big Data does not arise from nowhere. “Identifying patterns within data does not take place in a scientific vacuum” and the algorithms are based off of scientific reasoning and validated through scientific testing. The third and fourth ideas are that data cannot speak for itself without human bias or framing and that data requires humans with context or domain-specific knowledge to interpret the conclusions. 

The idea of data-driven science holds the tenets of the scientific method. Kitchin discusses the need for hypotheses and research questions to drive the data, or else the conclusions that come from the data would be less meaningful. 

Another example that Kitchin brings up to disprove the empiricist epistemology is use of Big Data in the humanities and social sciences. Big Data offers the opportunity to develop sophisticated models of human life, but often times it lacks the context and meaning associated with the subject matter to truly make meaningful conclusions. The rise of digital humanities creates new opportunities to analyze more data than ever before, but it cannot go beyond a surface level analysis of the data, and this is why human input is still necessary. 

Big Data is changing the way we approach science and theory. Many future investigations will be data based, but that does not mean that the scientific method does not play a vital role in analyzing the data-driven conclusions. The rise of Big Data is leading to a shift in the scientific method, not the death of all theory.
