# Blumenstock Article Response

## Describe the promise, pitfalls and ways forward Blumenstock uses as the foundation for his thesis.

With the rise of mobile technological devices and big data, machine learning algorithms and tactics have become ever-present in our daily lives. Large technology companies have developed algorithms which use our personal data to draw conclusions about what we are interested in, and further what advertisements would be best suited to our interests. These machine learning algorithms have the potential to be altered to direct aid to those in need in a more focused and timely manner than previous aid tactics. This new type of “humbler” data science has the potential to address serious humanitarian issues in third world countries, and develop more efficient solutions to these problems. 
	
With the promise of a humbler data science comes with pitfalls associated with the actual implementation of these machine learning methods because “good intent” is not enough to make an actual difference. The two main categories of issues associated with big data being used in humanitarian aid are data-based issues and human-based issues. The main data issues are that there is a lack of validation surrounding the tools that are being deployed, models have not proven to be robust to changing situations, therefore they tend to fail quickly over time, and many data sources have proven to be biased, which leads to misrepresentation of certain underserved groups. Human-based issues are slightly more nuances, as they are testaments of human nature. On both ends of humanitarian “transactions” individuals try to game the system. The ability to “derive value” from big data lies in the hands of the powerful. The ML technology that is being used to address humanitarian issues are not being regulated by the government, but being controlled by private companies that are motivated by profit. This leads to the rich and powerful benefiting from aid instead of the impoverished groups that actually need it. On the other hand, individuals can try and unfairly gain an advantage when it comes to distributing resources when they have an understanding of the criteria which is used to distribute aid. 

The pitfalls can all be solved, but each with a varying level of difficulty. The data-based issued are the most straight-forward to solve. To create more robust models that remain accurate overtime, researchers should preserve data sets overtime, as opposed to throwing out old dataset in favor of newer ones. There should also be more customization when trying to address different issues. Because there are many varying factors in every situation, each situation must be handled differently. In order to do this, researchers should take into account logical context as well as machine learning predictions. 

The solutions to human-based issues lie with transparency and accountability. A solution suggested by Blumenstock is to increase collaboration between private companies and nonprofits so that the interests of the people become the top-priority, as opposed to profit, and so that private companies are held accountable for their actions. Although Blumenstock did not specifically address this, another possible solution would be to increase government regulation over what private companies do with peoples’ personal data in situations like these. When individuals try to game the system to acquire aid for themselves, it is a bit more difficult to hold them accountable for their actions but an increase in collaboration and logical context could start to ameliorate the issue, although it is not a perfect solution. 
