## Our question related to the reading for today.  Nieves et a. use the random forest machine learning method to predict what value globally?  Describe in detail how random forest works.  What is a dasymmetric population allocation? Which geospatial covariates proved to be the most important when predicting global values of where humans reside?

The Nieves paper uses a random forest machine learning modelling framework to describe the relationship between census based population and geospatial covariate data such as night time light, energy productivity of plants, topographic, elevation, slope, climatic factors, land cover, roads, water features, human settlements, urban areas, protected areas, POIs, and facilities such as hospitals and schools. Random forest is an ensemble machine learning method meaning it combines multiple individual decision trees to create the “forest”. Individual trees by themselves are considered weak learners, but combined random forest is considered a strong learner. RF models use a ‘bagging’ technique which generates a certain amount of unpruned decision trees to prevent overfitting of the model. As described in the previous paper, the model used a RF regression model and dasymetric mapping to predict population from covariate and census data. Dasymetric mapping is a technique that is used to redistribute population density based on census and covariate data to show a more accurate representation of human population. Based off of the research in Nieves et a. The most important geospatial covariates were the ones that related to built/urban areas and climatic/environmental factors —  the variables had respective WIR values of .32 and .37. 
